All are on their way to decay
On horses,
on elephants or on foot
Or on a chariot
decked with flowers
All are on their way to decay
So,whatever is old and dilapidated,sell
it off, sell it off, sell it off.
Sell it off,
sell it off, sell it off.
This evening lamp… sell it off.
The evening lamp which
used to light up this mansion…
The zamindar saw his wife for
the first time in the light of this lamp.
Who will take this lamp home ?
Who wants to
name a price for it?
Please speak up.
11 !
Nitai is a smart fellow.
He has quoted Rs.
11,000 for this lamp.
Not Rs. 11,000.
I said Rs. 11.
The zamindar’s
lamp only for Rs. 11?
Is there anyone else who
wants to quote a price for this?
Going for 11,
once… Going for 11, twice…
Going for 11, thrice!
-Sir?
-Sell it off… Sell it off.
Sell it off, sell it off.
Netai, come and take it.
This evening lamp
is sold for only Rs. 11.
Give me the money.
Congratulations, Netai,
for buying this beautiful lamp for Rs. 11!
The one whose ancestors would wash
their mouths with expensive alcohol…
He is now drinking
hooch and saying,
“Sell it off”.
The condition of the last heir of this
zamindar family is similar to this statue here.
Time is a cruel taskmaster.
-Shut up, you idiot!
Hey, bring the Rs. 11 here.
Here, take this money.
Bring him some snacks
to go with the hooch.
The next item is the sword.
The sword!
This is the sword that the zamindars
used to subdue lions, british and pirates…
Who is the brave soul here who
can carry the weight of this sword?
-Is there no one ?
-There is no one…
Badna,
aren’t you part of the theatre group?
Then,
I’m sure you’ll need it for your play.
You take it.
This is too heavy, sir.
The play will be over
by the time I can lift it.
The play won’t be over.
It’ll be respected more
because of this sword.
Give me Rs. 100 for it.
The play will be over
by the time I can lift it.
No, no, I don’t want it…
Rs. 1000!
Haven’t had any whiskey
in such a long time…
Hello.
Somnath tell me.
Yeah, I’m good.
How are you?
How is Kusum?
Take care of her.
Go ahead…
What?
Hello,
Murshidabad electricity Board.
Due to technical faults,there will be
no power supply for the next three day.
We are sorry…
Oh, it’s you…
You didn’t even
come for aunt’s funeral.
You’re too busy…
Don’t tell me.
I prayed to Goddess Kali
and now they are gone.
There’s major cable
fault underground.
It’ll take at least
three days to fix it.
There’ll be a power
cut all over Balrampur.
You want to come now ?
Okay, come.
What is it ?
What is the matter?
Praises to Manasa
We offer our prayers to Manasa
We offer our
prayers to Lord Shiva
Praises to Manasa
We offer our prayers to Manasa
We offer our prayers
to the Mother Goddess
Praises to Manasa
Hello,
sir. My name is Amirchand Mittal.
We offer our prayers
to the Goddess Kali
Praises to Manasa
We offer our prayers to Manasa
I can’t do it.
My last offer is 10 lakhs.
Take another week’s time.
Think about it.
We offer our prayers to Manasa
Praises to Manasa
We offer our
prayers to Lord Shiva
Hey, let’s go.
Turn the car around.
Bloody Manasa!
Sir, please trust me.
No matter how influential Amirchand
Mittal is , I’ll catch him for sure.
And with all the evidence!
I have information that he has come
here in search of a historical treasure.
He’ll try to smuggle
it out of the country.
Sir, but…
Sir please try to understand.
As an officer how
can I support this?
We have a nominal morality…
Sir,
I can understand the position you’re in.
But please think about it.
How can we let go of a
smuggler like Amirchand Mittal?
Hello.
Bloody CID!
Stop right there!
“Don’t go away, my love…
“I’m going the same way too…”
Don’t shoot!
The city streets hide
secrets in it’s heart
Impatient time silently
looking for the answers
Hiding quietly in the crowds
is the treasure of royals
The weary traveller
comes home to his roots
This is how history is painted
Completely destroyed
The chandelier is rusted,
broken walls guard the memories
The birds are trapped
in black and white
Forgotten roads
and forgotten titles
The magic of the 20th
century has worn out
All the history is erased
All is destroyed
The dirt road parts
the green grass
The radio sings no more
In search of an
unfinished puzzle
exciting adventure
In search of justice
History is destroyed
THE MAZE OF ALINAGAR
The river flows
Through Chitpur
She flows through Kolkata
The tide turns at
the end of the day
The businessman’s
son avoids Balurghat
The boat finally
reaches Kalighat
In the words of the
famous poet Mukunda Ram
this is the course of
the Baghirathi river.
The three villages, Sutanuti,
Gobindopur and Kolkata came together…
…to form Kolkata as we know
it. And we need to know it better.
Sure.
After Aurangazeb’s death,
Kolkata’s boundary
extended till…
Till Bhagirathi in the West.
Till Sutanuti in the North.
On the East,
there were wetlands and the canal.
And Gobindopur in the South.
The East India Company
made this their business colony.
Where did Sutanuti
get it’s name from?
Suta means thread in
Bengali… From there.
This is where the
weavers used to live.
After the Saraswati river dried up,
the weavers shifted here from Saptagram.
This used to be Gobindopur.
Can you imagine, Dristi,
there used to be a dense forest here?
And just a few cottages.
The air and water
weren’t very good.
There would be
epidemics all the time.
So, that’s why it’s called
the “dying Gobindopur”.
Correct! This entire Fort William
area used to be Gobindopur village.
When Siraj-ud-Daulah
attacked Kolkata in 1756…
He destroyed the
old fort of the British.
Poor Brits! They didn’t
have good quality cement.
The fort would have
been still here today.
If you’re not serious about
this,I won’t talk anymore.
I just wanted a
commercial break…
Please, take your break…
Hey, why are you getting angry?
Just bunk it…
Okay, please finish your story.
Okay.
After Siraj’s death,
Lord Clive built the second British Fort.
That forced the residents
to move to Sutanuti.
-This was around…
-Please stop… Let it go please…
Please…
You have no patience…
What’s your problem?
This chandelier that
shines as bright as the day
The dancer… Many famous dancers
have performed under these chandeliers…
This chandelier
ruined the ancestors…
Gopal,were the masters of
this house very decadent?
Decadence is an understatement.
They would spend lakhs of
rupees on the weddings of their pets.
And every evening
they would dress up…
Take their cars out and
go to…You know where…
-Sakshi Gopal?
-Why have you stopped cleaning?
Hey, Bristi!
Are we that distantly
related to you?
You are my dad’s
cousin’s cousin’s…
Just stop it. You can’t even
remember how we’re related?
I’m your own father’s own cousin’s own
cousin’s brother-in-law’s mother-in-law…
Is our relationship
that distant?
No, no… Not distant at all.
You concentrate on your work…
But just look at Chandu.
You know he suffers from
indigestion. The poor fellow…
They have arrested him again,
right?
Please see if your
father can bail him out.
It doesn’t work like that.
You know my dad gets mad
about these things, Jaba Aunty.
It harms the prestige of the family.
Please keep a check on Chandu.
Disgusting!
Oh no! They’ll beat
my son black and blue!
What have you done, Missus?
This is the great
mystery of time.
150 years back, the men of this family would
get drunk and roll around in the ditches…
And these people
talk about prestige.
-My son is rotting in
prison and he is just…
Dad?
When did you get back?
Just now.
-Did you have your medicines?
-Yes.
Are you telling the truth?
Dad, can I ask you something?
The scholarship program i6n
grandfather’s name in our university…
Who has been
nominated this year?
Who do I have to nominate?
I’m not suggesting anything.
Please see for yourself.
See if he is a
deserving candidate.
So, this is Soham?
Dad
He has come this far on his own.
He wants to do a research
on Bengali Literature.
And that’s why he
needs the scholarship.
He has no one
else in this world.
He gives tuitions
to support himself.
He has no idea about all this.
I’m telling you on my own.
Can’t we give him
the scholarship?
Please… b
Why don’t you invite him home ?
Really?
Okay.
Thank you, Dad.
-It’s okay…
No, no… Not distant at all.
Just wanted to let you
know one thing about Soham.
Soham, time’s up.
Sir,
in your book,”Bengal’s Mirror”…
You’ve shared a lot of semsitive information about the old Bengali families…
You’ve published it.
- Did you have
any qualms about it?
- Not at all.
Because one group of Bengalis…
After the Battle of Plassey,
People who worked for the British or the
Nawabs as accountants ,secretaries or agents…
They were corrupt.
And they literally sold the
country off to the British.
I thought that Bengalis
should know this history.
But this is confidential
information.
Didn’t you face any
objections while publishing?
Yes but I didn’t really
care about it much and…
I just concentrated on my work.
And that’s why it’s still a bestseller.
Of course.
Should we begin again, sir?
-Two lakhs.
-Sorry,sir?
Pay me two lakhs.
Doesn’t my time have any value?
I have researched
a lot for my book…
You want me share such
important information just like that?
Do you think my time is free?
Sir, I’ll try.
What’s your problem?
Where will a struggling documentary
filmmaker get that kind of money?
It’s not a matter of death,
Bristi. It’s about need.
I might be in need.
How can you know what
another person might need?
Someone might need 10 or 20 thousand.
Others might need two or three lakhs.
But there’s always a need.
You got another one?
Do you have any idea
who is sending these to you?
Dad, I think this is a prank.
Don’t worry about these.
And these don’t make
any sense anyway.
I’m sure these mean something…
All those who conspired against
Siraj in the battle of Plassey…
These letters talk
about their fate.
All the conspirators died under
extraordinary circumstances.
What does the first one say?
-Lightning struck Miran?
-Miran died when
lightning struck him.
Miran is Mir Jafar’s oldest son.
People say lightning killed him.
Mohammed Ali Beg stabbed
Siraj under Miran’s orders.
What does the second one say?
-Ghasiti Begum drowned in water.
-Drowned in water… Ghasiti
Begum was another conspirator.
Miran had Ghasiti Begum drowned.
One conspirator
killing another one.
Strange fallacy!
-And third one ?
-The third one says…
Lord Clive committed suicide by
cutting his own throat with a razor.
Lord Clive was the British
Commander in the Battle of Plassey.
He committed suicide once
he went back to England.
Strange fallacy indeed!
It’s connected and it
definitely means something.
But why is someone sending
your father these letters?
That’s what I don’t get.
There were a lot of objections when
he published his book “Bengal’s Mirror”.
In fact,
he received some threats too.
Dad published the book anyway.
Don’t know if it’s one of them.
Anyway,don’t mention
any of this to him.
You shouldn’t have
recommended me to your father.
I did the right thing.
You shouldn’t have..
Why not ?
I don’t like taking
advantage of the situation.
Does everything
have to be your way ?
-Drink your tea
before it goes cold.
-Oh yes…
How many ponytails did
“Hutum Pyancha” have ?
Do owls have ponytails?
51.
Actually,Hutum Pyancha is
Kliprasad Singha’s pseudonym.
-Yeah,
he translated the Mahabharata.
Yes
If he saw any Brahmin
behaving unlike one…
…like cheating students or
disrespecting women or lying…
…he would chop their
ponytails off and take it home.
He would label each ponytail
with the name and the crime.
So,
he had collected 51 ponytails like this .
-Brilliant! Mindblowing
! Bravo! Bravo!
-Thank you!
Bravo!
It’s okay.
The scholarship is yours!
Do you have a place
to stay? You’ll stay here.
I live in University hostel…
No way… You’ll live here.
It’s not a problem, sir…
He is going against my wish…
Not a lot of people can do that.
You’ll move in to this house.
A lot of worthless
people live in this house.
You’ll bring honour
to our family.
Am I right?
-Gopal?
-Yes…
Soham will stay
in the room upstairs
Okay.
Brilliant!
Let’s go.
-You look very happy.
-Shut up, Sakhhi Gopal.
Great… Another cow is
added in Hari Ghosh’s shed.
What are you talking about ?
No,
he didn’t say anything wrong.
Hari Ghosh was one of the
oldest residents of Kolkata.
The fire in his kitchen
never went out.
No matter when or who might be,
there was always food in his house.
I guess it’s the
same in this house.
Wow! This one is
really smarter it seems.
He is my uncle.
My name is Sakhhi
meaning witness.
I witness everything.
The one and only witness.
My parents lovingly
named me Gopal.
And we lovingly call
him Sakhhi Gopal.
We’re very closely related.
Her father’s cousin’s cousin’s…
Something like that
-Hey Korola!
-He’s really funny.
-Coming… Okay…
-Clean this room.
-Soham is moving in with us.
-Okay.
Come here…
Have you checked
his family history?
-Why?
If he is not from an aristocratic
family,”butterflies” won’t fly…
We’ll fly our own “butterflies”.
Please,get the room
ready for him quickly.
-Listen, Brishti…
-Let me give you
a tour of the house.
You couldn’t
recognize your lover
Unknowingly you
jumped into the river
I told you about my uncle…
You’ll now stay here…
You’ll hear his
violin very morning.
-Hi.
Jahnabi Sen. Filmmaker.
She wants to make a documentary film
on Dad’s “Bengal’s Mirror” and our family.
And this is Soham, my friend.
He is doing research
on Bengal’s history.
-Hi…
-And he is going
to live here too.
I was planning to incorporate elements of
Kolkata and Bengal’s history in the film.
Will you help me?
Of course,
I’ll share whatever I know.
Come with me… Come!
-Come…
-My house…
-Mom…
-My darling baby…
Please control him.
He gets away with it everytime
because of Mr. Asutosh.
If you create a drunken mess another time,
I’ll beat you so bad…
Shut up and give me your baton.
Shut up and give me your
baton. I’ll shoot you down…
-But it’s broken.
-Broken… Get out of here…
Darling,did they hurt you?
What are you saying, Mom?
I’m from the Singho
dynasty. No one can touch me.
Father!
I have a “little” demand.
What demand?
The inspector has an iphone.
Why don’t I have an iphone?
Chandu, my son,
you don’t have an iphone?
You think you deserve an iphone?
Why? You don’t think so ?
How are you so dumb?
-I don’t know…
-Get out of here,you idiot…
-No one understands you, my love…
-Disgrace!
Skull with a fancy beard!
Complete disgrace!
Let’s start from tomorrow again?
But sir I haven’t…
Don’t worry about all that.
You continue with your work.
I should be the one
saying sorry to you.
Don’t know what
happened to me that day.
I shouldn’t have
said those things.
Please forget about it and
concentrate on the work.
If you want you can
stay here and work.
Thank you,
sir. Thank you so much.
-Welcome.
-Bye.
Please come in.
I wanted to..
I wanted to tell you something.
It would have been Impossible for me to
write this book if a friend didn’t help me.
My childhood friend,you know…
He used to live in this house.
-He was my…
-Thank you…
He was doing his research at the Calcutta
University with the scholarship my father set up.
And his field was
History of Bengal.
Gem of a boy.
DEDICATION SOMNATH DAS
Really enthusiastic…
Got me all the information…
-If it wasn’t for him…
Can we get in touch with him?
Since I’m also
working on History…
He’s no more.
He died in a road accident.
Around 26-27 years ago…
Anyway,what I really
wanted to say was…
Right before his death,
He had sent me a letter.
He had written that
he had a gift for me.
I was very excited about it.
Just a second
I can only get the gift if I…
If I could solve a riddle.
It’s good one…
He wrote it himself.
And if I solve it,I’ll
find something that…
…something that has
a lot of historical value.
-Okay…
I still haven’t
been able to solve…
The lane where the
wife wears her clothes
How many does Hutum Pyancha’s
collection of ponytails expose?
If you look carefully,
you’ll arrive
Hasting’s revenge on 5-8-75
Since you know how many
ponytails “Hutum Pyancha” had…
That’s why I thought
I’ll show it to you.
You never know…
You might solve this…
The very first line here…
You’ll hear his
violin very morning.
Is it referring to you wife?
I had thought so too…
But her mom passed
away 17-18 years ago…
I’ve asked around in all the places your
mom used to buy her sarees, jewelry etc…
They couldn’t tell me much.
Interesting…
Very interesting…
My stomach hurts!
-Mom, give me my medicine!
- Bringing it, my son…
What kind of a father are you ?
Look at your son.
His pain is killing him.
Please wake up.
What happened?
Were you dreaming
of some actress?
-What is it ?
-Our son is in a lot of pain…
Oh okay… okay…
Why are you going off to sleep?
He needs his medicine.
Don’t worry about it.
His liver is already
gone because of alcohol.
That’s what is hurting.
What are you saying?
It’s not alcohol.
It’s called whiskey.
Please get a bottle of
whisky from Asu’s room.
He might get some relief.
I’m in pain, Father!
Do you want to kill him?
Just because you
live in this house,
You’ve adopted
their lifestyle too.
You have indigestion if
you don’t drink whisky.
My bad luck!
What a disgrace! We can’t even
get some whiskey for our son.
-What kind of
whiskey do you want?
-Scotch! Sctoch? Debjani’s son?
It’s Jack’s son…
Something to do with a jack…
It’s Jack Daniel’s, Mom.
-Jack Daniel’s?
-Jack Daniel’s!
Do you know how much it costs?
Even if we sell our son,
it won’t be enough.
We belong to the Singho family,
Father.
Don’t look at the price.
We just want some relief,Father.
Please, bring it…
I really can’t.
You get it for your son.
I can’t.
-I’ll get it.
-Please do.
Mom, get some ice and soda too.
If you step out of the room,
I’ll kill this idiot!
Hi.
Oh ,hello!
-Busy?
-No,no…
Can I ask you something?
Yes, of course.
Why are you so curious about
the History of Bengal and Kolkata?
How do I put it?
I always felt that this
city is very mysterious.
Just imagine the
histories it has witnessed.
Each little line
has a story to tell.
That’s what draws me…
-Hello.
-Hi.
-What are you talking about?
- My interest in History.
Anyway, I’ll see you later.
-Okay.
-Yes.
Sit , sit, sit…..
I think I’ve figured out
what “5-8-75” means.
“5-8-75, Hasting’s revenge”?
I’ve made a huge
mistake by calling you here.
-Why ?
Now, you’re going to bore me
With details about Hastings.
Just hear me out.
Don’t worry about it.
It’s very interesting.
Let me tell you the story.
After Mirjafar died,
Diwan Nandakumar…
…reported against Warren Hastings
corruption to the East India Company.
And as payback,
Hastings filed a case against Nandakumar…
…claiming he forged documents.
Nandakumar has
sentenced to be hanged.
The date of the
hanging was ‘5-8-1775”.
This riddle talks
about Nandakumar.
What does that have
to do with my mom ?
They are related in some way.
We need to find out how.
Hey, I think my brother’s here.
-Brother…
-Tell me. -Why are you so late ?
-Just… Your flight was delayed?
-By two hours.
This came for you.
What’s this ?
I didn’t open it.
It was Dad.
I have no privacy in this house.
The bank’s recovery agents
have already come home twice.
Dad is trying hard
to keep them at bay.
Thank him for his favour.
Can i tell you something?
Please stop spending
money excessively.
What are you talking about?
You buy a phone every month…
You buy a new car often…
You’re throwing
extravagant parties…
Travelling abroad… Don’t you
think you’re spending too much?
You might not understand it.
But these are
necessities for me.
That’s enough for me.
So, researching History, I see…
That’s great but
what’s the point?
You’ll ultimately
become a professor.
So,
what’s wrong with being a professor?
Where do you live ?
What does your father do ?
Soham has grown
up in an orphanage.
He doesn’t know
who his parents are.
Dad and I don’t
have a problem with it.
Right, Dad?
Can you pass me the gravy?
Sir.
-Hey! Hey! Hey!
-What happened?
Why are you
littering this place?
Get out of here.
-Hello, Nitai.
-Hello, sir.
Are you here for the clay?
Isn’t this clay full of goodness,
Nitai?
And Mother will come alive.
She’ll get dressed
at Jorashankho.
She’ll have a
feast in Kumurtuli…
She’ll join in the night long
festivities at the Sovabazar Rajbari
And in the end she’ll come back to the
Ganges and once again become clay.
To fathom her… Hey!
You’re not going to stop unless You
turn this place into a junkyard. Right?
-Get out of here!
-Sir! What a rascal!
Who were you talking about?
Everybody’s Mother.
Goddess Durga.
It seems you’ve
forgotten everything.
How much longer are you going to
tell these stories to be in business?
Everything is fake
and made up to you.
My grandfather’s grandfather…
To make it simple for you…
My father’s father’s
father’s father…
…was the priest in Kumurtuli’s
Abhay Charan Mitra’s house.
If I tell you how much rice was used
in the offering, you’ll go into shock.
So, the Mother Goddess ate at
Kumurtuli’s Abhay Charan Mitra’s home…
And where did she dressed up ?
These are adages from old Kolkata,
son.
She would wear her jewellery at
Jorashanko’s Shibkrishna Dan’s house.
She eats at Kumurtuli’s
Abhay Charan Mitra’s home.
And she attends the festivities
at Sovabazar’s Rajbari.
Your generation doesn’t
know these things.
And even if you did
you don’t believe in it.
I do, sir
Bless me, sir.
Only Goddess Durga knows,
If I believed me.
-Mr. Storyteller!
-Hey! Will you please leave?
-This old man is killing me!
-Disgusting!
Do you know where
Shibkrishna Dan’s house is?
-Yes.
-Okay.
-We want to go there exactly.
-Got it.
Who is Shibkrishna Dan ?
Why are we going to his place ?
Because Asutosh’s
wife gets dressed there.
What? Why are you
using my dad’s name?
I’m not taking about your dad.
Asutosh is Lord
Shiva’s other name.
Lord Shiva’s other
name was Somenath too.
-And what’s Shiva’s wife’s name ?
-Durga. Correct.
Where the wife dresses up…
Somnath was
referring to this house.
According to the adages…
Goddes Durga wears her jewellery in
Jorashanko’s Shibkrishna Dan’s House.
-Excellent! Let’s go.
-Where are you going?
Ain’t we going in?
What does the riddle say?
The lane where the
wide wears her clothes…
How many does Hutum Byancha’s
collection of ponytails expose?
-Remember the
number of ponytails?
-51. Then what can we deduce?
Absolutely nothing!
Please pray to Goddess
Durga for some brains.
What are you trying to say ?
Do you think I am not smart?
You’re losing your mind.
Hey, 51 ponytails mean…
…we’ve to look for
house number 51?
You just prayed once and she
has already sent you some brains.
Shut up!
How many does Hutum Byancha’s
collection of ponytails expose?
If you are looking carefully,
you’ll arrive Hastings’ revenge on 5-8-75
-Sir,
do you know if Nandakumar lives here?
-Nandakumar Ghosh?
-Yes, This house?
-Yeah, he lives in this house.
Let’s go in. Come quickly…
How are you related to Somnath ?
I’m not related.
This is my friend, Brishti.
Do you know Asutosh Singho?
Asutosh from the Singho house?
Yes
Brishti is his daughter.
Asutosh and
Somnath were friends.
He has passed away
a long time back.
Who?
-Somnath?
-Yes.
Somnath… …has passed away?
Yes,he passed away.
And before he passed away,
he sent Asutosh a letter.
That’s where the riddle was.
The solution to the riddle will lead
to an object of great historical value.
So far, it has led us to you.
Somnath was a curious guy.
I’ve had many students
but no one like Somnath.
He respected me a lot.
I felt… How long it has been?
-Must be 25 years.. 27 years…
-27 years…
Somnath had sent me a
letter before he passed away.
If anyone came to
me with that riddle..
I was supposed
to hand this over.
I’ve been waiting for too long.
But no one came.
I have lost my vision too.
And you ‘ve finally come.
Take it.
I am free of my responsibility.
Didn’t Somnath tell
you anything else?
No… Nothing else…
“The sky blue glass in English
puts the Englishman in jail”
“The birthday of the best translator
will take you home without fail”
Nine.
The sky blue glass in English?
Can you please stop
with the history already?
Why?
Because I can’t spend the rest
of my life with a crazy person.
Somnath Das went
crazy because of History.
And I think people who study
History also go mad like Somnath Das.
-May Goddess Durga
give you some brains.
-Shut up.
Somnath Das is a crazy guy.
And I’m sure he’s alive.
He is secretly sending Dad those notes. And he’s
having a good laugh at our expense, Rubbish!
-Let’s go. We’ll be late.
-Where do we have to go ?
You forgot we’ve to
go to Ranjana’s party?
Please don’t take me there.
I feel very uncomfortable.
-Stop your nonsense. Let’s go.
-Please…
There’ll be a lot
of traffic in Behala.
We’ll take James
Long Sarani. Come on.
James… Hey, Brishti…
-Can you drop me
off at the library?
-Am I your driver?
What’s the first thing that comes to
your mind when you hear the word sky?
Here we go again.
Tell me.
-Sky blue, Indigo…
-Indigo…
Now,
give me another word for glass.
-Mirror…
-Great!
That makes it “Nil Darpan” Which
is also called “The Indigo Mirror”.
Yes, that’s a famous play
ny Dinabandhu Mitra. So?
The British had
banned this play.
But an Englishman… Take
the James Long Sarani.
-Okay, sir.
-What were you saying?
An Englishman secretly got it translated and sent
it to England. He was sent to prison for this.
“The sky blue glass in English
puts the Englishman in jail
Who was he ?
Reverend James Long.
-Are we on James Long Sarani.
-Yes, sir.
“The birthday of the best translator will take
you home without fail” What does this mean?
It is said that Michael Madhusudan Dutt
translated the play in English overnight.
And his date of
birth is 25-1-1824.
25 by 1… Stop the car!
What happened?
Where are you going?
25/1… 25/1… Brishti…
Dinabandhu Sweet Shop!
-Somnath Das… My dad talked about him.
-Somnath Das…
But that’s a long time ago.
-Can we meet your father?
-Yes.
We’re Sorry.
He used to say Somnath
Das was a chatterbox.
What was the guy’s name?
Michael Mitra… Dinabandhu Dutt.
James Long Sarani…
Michael… Please continue…
There’s some kind of
connection with our shop.
That’s why he came
to meet my dad.
He had all the
information about Kolkata.
My dad also indulged him.
They were like
two peas in a pod.
Okay.
Where are you going?
Wait one minute.
Hey, bring a ledikeni sweet.
-We don’t want
to eat your sweets.
-I’m not offering either.
Drop the sweet.
Dad, I kept my word.
What is all this ?
That I don’t know.
Somnath had sent
a letter to my dad.
Before he died,
He passed the instruction to me.
It says…
“What made this sweet’s father famous,
Seven of those must be put beside it.”
Who is ledikeni sweet’s father ?
It can be any of the sweets…
You can dig deeper into the mystery
of sweets but please pay me Rs. 10.
Amirchand,I’ll not get any
part of my father’s property.
Brishti will inherit everything.
In this situation,
if I can’t get the money,
I’ll lose the shop.
I can’t get a loan
from anywhere.
Abhiraj,
your credit history is scary!
How can I trust you
with so much money?
But my family will lose
it’s respect if the shop…
You Bengalis might
not have anything else…
…but you care a lot about
respect and prestige. Don’t you?
Abhiraj, I’m a businessman.
I’m offering an
open deal to you.
Deliver the object.
And take your money.
It won’t be a loan.
Consider it an income.
You don’t get it.
-There’s too much sentiment…
-Then let it be.
Live the rest of your
life with your sentiment.
Enjoy the songs of Tagore.
“The unforgettable memories
of the days gone by…”
He buried a ledikeni
sweet? Really?
Now,
you know how crazy your friend was.
How can I say that?
Because the last two puzzles…
-Brishti! Brishti!
-Now what? Lady
Canning.. How could I forget?
What about Lady Canning?
-Lady Canning… -Please sit…
Lord Canning’s wife’s
name was Charlotte Canning.
She was called Lady Canning.
The sweet that was created in honour
of her coming to India was ledikeni.
Ledikeni from Lady Canning.
But what was Lady Canning’s
father’s famous creation? I’ll tell you.
Bhim Nag created the
special sweet ledikeni.
That’s why Bhim Nag
is the father of ledikeni.
-Thank you.
So what does burying
the ledikeni mean?
Lady canning’s grave.
Barrackpore.
Brishti..
BHIM CHANDRA NAG
The next letter is going
to be delivered by ants.
How?
Who else is going to
come for your sweets here?
Stop kidding.
Lady Canning was a painter.
She had made some really
famous paintings of India.
She passed away with her
head on Lord Canning’s shoulder.
Lord Canning passed
away soon after.
And since then he has been
protecting his wife’s grave.
This is called true love.
When I die, will you still be
reading “Hutum pyancha’s Tales?”
What rubbish! Hear me out.
-Do6n’t ne mad at me.
-I don’t like all this.
-I was just kiddi6ng.
- Nope.
My sweetie pie…
How is Somnath?
He has passed away
almost 27 years ago…
-Passed away?
- Yes.
He loved me a lot…
-Did he come here often?
-Yes. Yes, quiet often.
We would chat for hours…
He had sent me a
letter many years back.
How are you related to him?
No,we’re not related.
But the way you talk… Your…
I think we’re being followed.
A man was murdered
in front of us.
A birthday gift…
What can be worth a man’s life?
The garderner seemed to think
you and Somnath Das were similar…
They killed him,
5before he could say anything, Brishti.
Listen,
I think you should stop your research.
Something’s not right.
I would have agreed
with you before.
But now I want
to see how it ends.
“The child sleeps
and the city is quiet
That’s when the
Marathas attacked.”
“Sutanuti and Gobindopur
Were the last to be hacked.”
“On the path of the ditch
Stands the Native Zamindar.”
“It took a turn around the villa
Where stood the challenger.”
“Look carefully
arou6nd the area”
“Baghbazar’s nine gems In
the earthquake’s hysteria.”
-I’m sure you can understand…
-Yes,
I do… Let’s see what happens.
Thank you so much.
- Good bye. -Good bye.
Sir.
Don’t worry. I’ve spoken
to the commissioner.
There won’t be any
harassment. Don’t worry.
Sir,
what do you think the gift is?
What can be so valuable,
That a man was murdered for it ?
What was he trying to say?
You know, what I think,
Soham is…
Why do you think the
two incidents are related?
You’ve met a lot of other people,
But nothing happened to them…
Okay, sir.
-Sir, can I ask you something?
-Of course.
Why did you choose me ?
You’ve written a book like
“Bengal’s Mirror”. You could have…
And I might just keep
this precious gift for myself.
I’m a good judge of character.
Thank you, Sir.
JAGAT SETH’S MURDER
-Hi.
How is your film coming along?
Great! It’s my dream project.
See…
Very nice.
You have to move around a
lot to get the footage, right ?
Must be very hectic?
It is but I enjoy it.
You were at Barrackpore today,
isn’t it?
And before this Jorashanko?
Yes,
I have to go to a lot of places.
It’s really strange how your schedule
coincides with whatever Soham and I are.
Weren’t you there at
James Long Sarani too?
These coincidences are becoming
too frequent. Do something about it.
Sir
“The child sleeps and the city is quiet
That’s when the Marathas attacked”
1742…
20,000 Marathi
soldiers attacked Bengal.
Innumerable villages
were looted and plundered.
The villagers started moving towards
Kolkata to seek refuse under the British.
To secure the perimeter,
The English started digging a ditch.
-That’s the Maratha ditch. -Yes…
Like it says in the riddle… “Sutanuti and
Gobindopur were the last to be hacked.”
This ditch was supposed to
be 7 miles long and 21 feet wide.
It used to be called
Upper Circular Road.
It was later renamed Acharya
Prafulla Chandra Roy road.
The plan was to
keep the ditch straight.
It would go along the
road that we’re on right now.
But… “On the path of the ditch
Stands the Native Zamindar”…
It’s referring to
Gobindo Ram Mitra.
He was the first Zamindar
under the English rule.
So, the British would call him
“Native” or “Black zamindar”.
So, Gobindo Ram Mitra’s
villa was on the ditch’s path.
It came straight
up to the villa then…
The Maratha ditch
had to take a turn.
“It took a turn around the villa
Where stood the challenger”…
I’ve read about this in
Dad’s “Bengal’s Mirror.”
Isn’t it ?
Gobindo Ram Mitra was very
close to the English officials.
So, the ditch had to
take a turn from his villa.
Bangiya Sahitya Parishad, the literary
society of Bengal was part of this villa.
Look, Mr. Mittal…
You’ve been promising this
to me for the last 25 years.
But you’ve yet to trace it out.
And you’re
completely out of track.
Sir… I’m very much in but
the price is not negotiable.
-35 crores.
-35 crores?
This is too much!
Sir…
The grip is of pure gold.
And it has five of the
world’s most precious stones.
Spinel,
ruby… Diamond,emerald,sapphire.
Plus it has got
the historical value.
Sir, 35 crores is a fair deal.
Moreover,
I have another thing to offer you, sir.
A nose ring.
With many antique diamonds.
Sir,
I’ll give it to you at a discounted rate.
Please read it out
one more time…
“Look carefully
arou6nd the area”
“Baghbazar’s nine gems In
the earthquake’s hysteria.”
“In the earthquake’s hysteria.”
In the 1730…
Gobindo Ram Mitra built
the Nine Gems temple.
It’s said it was taller… …than
the Ochterlony Monument.
It was razed to the ground
during the earthquake of 1840.
The nine gems…
It must be here somewhere…
Excuse me…
Do you k6now a6ny place,
shop or home which is called “nine gems”?
-Nine gems? -Yes.
That’s not here.
There were nine gems
in Vikramaditya’s court.
-No, no…
-We know that too.
What an idiot!
Are there any…
Who did you call an idiot?
-Maybe a shop or a house_? Anything_?
-There’s nothing.
No gems or jewels…
-Are you sure_?
-This is my neighbourhood.
I’m very sure.
-What I mea6nt was…
-Let’s go. No need to teach history now.
Where are you _? I’ve
been waiting for so long.
-What happened?
-What should we do ?
I haven’t eaten
anything since morning.
Let’s grab a bite and think.
Come straight from
Bangiya Sahitya Parishad…
It’ll be on your right.
Yes, on the right,
the Black Pagoda.
“Baghbazar’s nine gems In
the earthquake’s hysteria.”
Since the Nine Gems Temple
was built by the Black Zamindar…
So,
the British called it the Black Pagoda.
Hello!
Greetings, Dad!
Have you reached the village?
Say hello to Mom.
How is everyone?
All good?
What?
She had another baby?
-How wonderful…
-Please ask him about letter.
Give my love to her…
Ask about the letter.
Send me a photo of
the baby on WhatsApp.
I’ll put it up in the Black Pagoda…
Please ask about the letter.
-Dad, did any Somnath…
-Somnath Das.
Did you know a Bengali
gentleman called Somnath Das?
You knew him?
He was your friend?
Yeah, Gobindo Ram’s people
have become famous in Kolkata.
Which Gobindo Ram
are you talki6ng about?
My father… Owner
of this Black Pagoda.
Gobindo Ram Mitra,
The owner of Black Pagoda…
-Shut up.
- I was talking to them.
Not Mitra, Gobindo Ram Sahoo,
My dad’s name… Bless you.
-Bless you.
-That wasn’t for you.
I’m congratulating my
dad for devicing the lock.
What lock?
Hold on for a moment.
My dad can make a
special lock with numbers.
He made it when he was working
at the Cossipore Gun Shell Factory.
What was his name ? Somnath Das.
-Somnath Das. -Somnath Das.
He bought one of these
special locks from my father.
What’s so special
about this lock?
There’s a layer of
gunpowder inside this lock.
And it’ll only open with
the right combination.
What if someone
tries to break this lock?
The lock will burst. The person
might get injured or even die.
Now,ask him about the letter.
What’s the hurry?
I’m asking him.
-Please, ask him…
-Yeah, we’re in a hurry.
-So, Dad… -Please…
Do you have any letter
from Somnath Das?
-You do? He does.
-He does have the letter?
There’s a lady here who
has come for the letter.
When are you coming back ?
-One month later?
-One month… You can
take the letter after a month.
Please do something, Brishti…
A month… Please
figure something out.
- Is the letter important ?
-Very important.
Wait… Hold on…
Not you, Dad. I’m telling them.
Do something for me…
I’m sending you
this lady’s number.
Take a photo of the letter.
Send it to her on WhatsApp.
Okay. Bye, Dad.
What a coincidence!
-Gobindo Ram Mitra
and Gobindo Ram Sahoo.
Message…
-Hey, it’s him.
-Let me see. Let me see.
“The place where first
Laxmi Festival’s offering grew
“The colourful reflection on the
lake Changed it’s name anew.”
“The object of the reflection is
Where Mashusudan took his vow.”
“The high priest of the ritual
Is the father of the house now.”
Six.
Why is there a number
at the end of each letter?
Maybe it’s the
combination to the locker…
Where Das’s gift might be.
Yeah but where is the locker?
“Madhusudan’s vow”…
Okay, let’s go.
“The object of reflection is
Where Madhusudan took his vow.”
Excuse me. 2000 please.
For what_?
My liver doesn’t allow me
to drink hooch anymore.
And my health is gone.
Doc has asked
me to drink scotch.
But my father… He
has no aristrocracy.
He’s a country mouse.
-You look like you drink.
-No, I don’t.
Oh my God! That’s strange!
You don’t drink!
Do you prefer baby food?
Please give up the liquor,
Chandu.
And save your liver.
What are you saying?
Everything is
going to rot anyway.
This is the way of the world.
Do6n’t worry. Just dri6nk.
And give me 2000 bucks.
Hey, just get out of here.
Why are you hitting
my son again?
He just wanted his medicine.
I’ll tell you what to do.
Give him some folidol
first thing in the morning.
-What should I give him?
-Folidol.
No one understands my pain.
-Why don’t you
take some folidol too.
Why are you still
standing there?
Get out of here.
No Mom… This is disgusting!
Sakhhi Gopal.
-Did he want money? -Yes.
My son is a spoilt brat.
Not everyone is
fortunate like Somnath.
Time’s up.
What are the offerings
in the Laxmi festival?
-Fruits,sweets…
-Apart from that?
Sweet coco6nut fritters…
Nope, it’s something else.
-Here you go… -That’s enough…
The fragrance of the Gobindobhog
rice is just so special… Isn’t it Asutosh?
Feed him properly… Don’t be shy.
This Goddess Laxmi’s
blessing… Please eat.
Here you go… Have
you seen Chandu?
Who knows?
Why aren’t you eating?
You’ve figured out the
first part of puzzle, right ?
Yes! Yes! Yes!
You’re not going anywhere
till you finish your food.
Shut up and sit.
Sit down and eat.
What’s wrong? Feeling unwell?
I’ve got it! Eat slowly.
Why have you brought
me to Lal Bazaar?
Come…
Please tell me.
Lal Bazar’s Lal Mohan Seth was
one of the oldest residents of Kolkata.
The rice offering to their deity
Gobindo was grown right here.
-And that rice is called Gobindobhog. Right!
-Gobindobhog.
And what about the
reflection on the lake ?
This Old Mission
Church’s reflection…
…would fall on the lake.
The church was red. That’s
why since the reflection was red…
It was called Lal
Dighi or Red Lake.
And the object of thet reflection is this,
the Old Mission Church.
-And this is where Madhusudan was initiated…
-Oh God!
Madhusudan Dutt was influenced
by Krishna Mohan Bandopadhyay.
And he converted to Christianity here
in the Old Mission Church. Now, let’s go.
The high priest
is then the Father?
This is a strange coincidence,
My son.
My name is also Krishna
Mohan Bandopadhyay.
Somnath met me quite often.
He had a lot of questions about
the Old churches of Kolkata.
This is the letter.
I’m free today.
You said you’re not
related to Somnath.
No,we’re not related.
Strange.
The same gait,
the same sharpness…
Strangely…
You and Somnath…
Have you noticed something?
Everyone who has met Somnath
like the gardener,the Father…
They were both trying
to tell you something.
And they are the
ones who got killed.
No.. Jorashankho’s Nando
kumar didn’t say anything…
He has also met Somnath.
Nando Kumar didn’t
say anything to me.
Because he has
lost his eyesight.
A storm is brewing.
Sakhhi Gopal…
- You know everything,
don’t you ?
-What do I know?
Why did you say that to me,
Sakhhi Gopal?
What did I say?
When Chandu was
asking for money…
You’d said you were not as
fortunate as Somnath Das.
Why did you say that?
And the day I had moved in,
you said I’m smarter.
Who am I smarter than,
Sakhhi Gopal?
-I don’t know what you’re talking about…
-You know everything…
Please,
don’t keep secrets anymore.
My gait, my way of talking…
It’s all too familiar. Isn’t it?
Who am I like, Sakhhi Gopal?
You… Wait…
If anyone gets to know… I’ll
be thrown out of this house.
Doomsday is here, Asutosh!
Goddess Laxmi's
nose ring is missing
What happened?
Where were you?
-I should have told you…
-What’s wrong?
You’ve been misbehaving
since yesterday.
I’ll explain it to
you in your way.
What are you talking about?
-What did I do ?
- What was the riddle?
“Thanks to the Briton, Permanent is the arrangement
Kali resides in Shankar’s heart Since times ancient”
It’s reffering to Lord Cornwallis’
Permanent Settlement.
This gave rise to a new class of workers,
the official clerks, Under the Zamindari.
I went to Bidhan Sarani formerly
known as the Cornwalis Street.
THANTHANIA KALI TEMPLE
1110/1424
In 1110,
according to the Bengali calendar,
Shankar Ghosh built this
Kali Temple and the idol.
And that’s why,” Kali resides in
Shankar’s heart Since times ancient”…
The same words can
mean several things.
It might be Shankar Ghosh
or Lord Shankar or.. Or?
I’m doing this work with such
enthusiasm as a student of History…
But I might have
some other end to it.
Isn’t it Brishti ?
What’s up with you?
“Everyday devotees bow down their heads Under
their feet is where the last clue is embedded.”
“He requested for the job in the cashbook
Bidyasunder fetched him the title of Kaviranjan”
“Check the Bagbazar Library’s north-east corner
“All the rejected tales will have a merger.”
One.
“He requested for
the job in the cashbook
Ram Prasad Sen was employed as an accountant
In the Mitra household of Bagbazar.
And in that cashbook,
he wrote his songs.
“Give me the caretaker’s job I am
a faithful devotee, Goddess Kali.”
“Bidyasunder fetched
him the title of Kaviranjan”
He wrote the epic “Bidya Sundar” At the
request of Nadia’s King Krishna Chandra.
The King was so happy that he
bestowed the “Kaviranjan” title on him.
Now, you know the riddle
talks about Ram Prasad Sen.
Where are you going?
Bagbazar Library…
That’s where the object…
I’ve told you this too…
I’m really stupid, Brishti.
Where is the prince?
My little prince,
who did you sell the real thing to ?
Believe me, I didn’t know.
I thought this was the original.
Shut up, you idiot.
Don’t say another word.
What is this ?
Listen to me carefully, Abhiraj.
Listen very carefully.
I’ll destroy you if you don’t
bring me the original nose ring.
One phone call and the bank
will take possession of your shop.
Give me a phone.
I’ll ruin your entire family.
Who am I? Amirchand Mittal
okey. Give me some more time.
Yeah?
Yes,yes, follow him.
I’m on my way.
-Admit it! Admit that you’ve stolen it.
-Please don’t hurt him.
-You dishonest scum. Admit it.
-Let me go. I haven’t done anything.
-You’ve stolen the nose ring…
-I haven’t stolen anything…
-Abhi,Please stop…
-I haven’t stolen anything… Mom!
-I don’t know anything…
-Tell me…
Asutosh,
Please ask Abhi to stop.
I haven’t stolen anything…
My son is a drunk,
jobless guy. But he’s not a thief.
Please, ask him to stop,
Asutosh.
-Soham,what’s the matter.
-Come with me. I’ll explain everything.
The north-east corner…
Not that side. This way.
Please ask him to stop.
He’s going to kill my son.
-One good beating
and you’ll talk…
-Abhi,
listen… Uncle,please save me.
I swear I didn’t steal anything.
Stop lying…
-I have not stolen anything…
-Please let him go…
-I haven’t done anything…
-I’m begging you please…
-I’ll finish you off today…
-No… Please don’t hurt my
father… He doesn’t know anything.
I stole it and sold it off.
Mom…
Mom… Mom…
Hey, hey, hey… Ram Prasad
Sen’s picture in the north-east corner.
What are you doing, Soham?
My goodness!
I had heard about
it from Harinath.
He was the librarian before me.
There’s a secret locker in this library.
And it’s made of a special
gunpowder coating on the inside.
-If anyone tries to break it…
-It’ll burst.
Yes but how did you know ?
I think Harinath and
Somnath Das did it together.
Somnath Das… Who is Somnath Das?
Dad, Chandu is not a thief.
Why didn’t you stop Abhi when
he was going to hit Sakhhi Gopal?
You just stood there…
How can I call my
own son a thief?
This is the original.
I knew Abhiraj is going
to do something like this.
I made an exact replica.
I replaced it a
couple of days back.
How can I call my own son
a thief? That too in public…
That’s why it’s easier
to blame someone else.
Throws one off the track…
Especially in an
aristocatic family.
We’re not going to live in
house after all the persecution.
We’ll leave here.
But before I leave
I’ll spill all the beans.
The letters…
Thanthania, one… 1
Nine, five, six, four, one.
Five,six,four,one.
“The last remains of
Alinagar’s founder here lies
Count the number
of grave lengthwise
Now it’s time to cross the river
You’ll reach the town’s north-east corner Covered
in dust, the founding father sleeps under the stair
Unique design of the
door you’ll find here
The unique door on the west Will
lead you to a secret passageway
Move past the number of rooms
You’d counted earlier in the day”
What does this even mean?
I’ve tolerated a lot of injustice
and disrespect Through the years…
But today Sakhhi Gopal
will talk the witness stand.
You’ll reach the town’s north-east corner Covered
in dust, the founding father sleeps under the stair
Let me see… This is straight
out of the Arabian Nights.
What next?
We have to cross this tunnel
and come here.
-I’m very sure the object is here…
-Right but…
Your father’s deeds… I feel
bad about sharing them with you.
But today I have
to reveal everything.
For many years now,
Just to keep up the appearances…
Everything in this house
is mortgaged to Amirchand.
He has not even
spared this house.
And he’s not even wavered While
stabbing his friend in the back.
This traitor!
Look,
Asutosh… There’s no friendship in business.
-Give me my money back.
-Hear me out, Amirchand. How will I arrange
for so much money At such short notice?
-Please give me some more time.
-How much more, Asutosh?
If you can’t repay the loan,
Mortgage something else.
How about the nose
ring on Goddess Laxmi?
You can give me that.
It’s an important
family heirloom.
Forget family history…
Don’t forget you’re in debt.
You have no respect.
Hello.
Tell me Somnath.
Yeah, we can talk.
What? Listen to me…
Listen to me carefully.
Everyone will not
know it’s value.
Don’t tell anyone else about it.
Keep the object with you.
Where have you hidden it?
You’ve sent me a letter?
Okay, I’ll let you know… Okay.
Hello,
Harinath. This is Somnath.
Did Gobindo Ram
install the lock?
That’s a relief!
Harinath,
I’ve sent you a letter…
You’ll find the map there.
Please put in the locker.
I tried to contact the museum
But they are tracking that too.
Harinath,you’ll also find the text to be
etched On the Thanthania Kali Temple slab.
Please make sure it gets done.
Thank you so much.
What? Listen to me…
Listen to me carefully.
I’ve hidden it with great
difficulty from them.
One more thing… Hold on…
I’ve sent my trustworthy
friends and seniors Some riddles.
If ever a deserving person can
solve them he will reach the library.
And he’ll deserve
the prize in the end.
Write down the
numbers to unlock.
It’s okay, Asutosh.
I’ll waive off your loan.
But in return…
Mir Jafar…
Somnath, stop.
What are you doing?
Tell them where the object is.
Somnath,you’ll be set for
life With the money you’ll get.
Somnath, please listen to
me. I’ve sent you a letter.
Find it if you can.
Don’t shoot.
Yes,
I’ve made mistakes. Big mistakes…
I lost everything to my careless
youth. I was neck deep in debt.
Only Amirchand saved me then.
And I’m still paying for my sins
Somnath was my best friend.
He lived in this very house.
I did everything to
protect the family’s honour.
I had no other option.
Brishti should know.
Soham’s real identity.
What’s Soham’s real identity?
The day Soham moved in,
I had a feeling…
Amirchand knew
about Somnath’s letter.
No one could solve it.
Then ,one day Amirchand showed
me a photo of you and Soham.
Asutosh your daughter
has found a gem.
The information I have about
the boy Will shake you to the core
Congratulations!
When Somnath passed away,
His wife Kusum was pregnant.
Kusum died at childbirth.
She had a son.
He was sent to the orphanage.
And when you mentioned…
Soham is an orphan…
The way he looked…
I called the orphanage…
I found out he is the
one. Somnath’s son.
And his knowledge in history.
That’s the power of gene!
And you began
your Arabian Nights.
But Sakhhi Gopal,
what was all this for?
It’s the sword of
Nawab Siraj-ud-Daulah!
Before the Battle of Plassey,
The Nawab made a
treaty with the French.
And as a symbol of the treaty,
the French Gifted the Nawab a sword.
Don’t you understand
the historical importance?
Oh no, no, no…
The price is 35 crores.
No, no, not negotiable.
Let’s speak tomorrow
And close the deal. Okay?
Believe me,
I’ve been repenting all my life.
What else could I have done ?
We would have lost everything.
Would you be okay with that?
If would have been
difficult But not impossible.
That would have been
more respectful at least.
Listen to me.
Please hear me out.
Please don’t do this. Please
don’t misunderstand me.
I’ve done everything for you.
May be you should have
thought about it before.
Mir Jafar.
He was affected by
leprosy in his last days.
Time for you to suffer too.
MIR JAFAR’S LEPROSY No
dishonesty will go unpunished.
Everyone will pay
for their sins. You?
Time is a difficult riddle
Doubt digs deeper in the viens
Hide and seek plays the clues
History veiled in rhymes
Time is a difficult riddle
Doubt digs deeper in the viens
Hide and seek plays the clues
History veiled in rhymes
Questions crowd the mind On a dark,
silent night
What are they pointing at ?
He’s looking for answers
hidden in the rhymes
hidden in the mysteries
Tell me about Alinagar.
What happened?
What is the history of Alinagar?
In 1756,
when Siraj ud-Daulah attacked Kolkata…
When he seized Kolkata…
He changed Kolkata’s name to Alinagar
After his grandfather, Ali Wardi Khan.
Taking advantage of the similarity in name with Calicut,
The English would export cotton and silk from Kolkata.
Siraj wanted to
destroy that business.
They treaty between Lord Clive and
Mir Jafar During the Battle of Plassey…
Clearly states that the name Of the
city had to be changed back to Kolkata.
So Alinagar’s founder
is Siraj ud-Daulah.
-Do you remember the riddle?
-My memory is my only strength.
“The last remains of
Alinagar’s founder here lies…”
That means Siraj
ud-Daulah’s grave.
Murshidabad’s Khushbagh.
“The last remains of
Alinagar’s founder here lies…”
“Count the number
of grave lengthwise.”
So, we have to count
The total number of graves.
Bengal’s last independent Nawab.
Let’s go… Hurry up.
Come on…
One, two, three,
three, four, five…
Keep counting… Six, seven…
Come here.
I counted 17 graves that side.
-How many were there inside?
-Eight.
This side had nine.
That adds up to 34.
What next?
“Now it’s time to cross the river “You’ll
reach the town’s north-east corner.”
Let’s go…
Across the Ganges is
the city’s north-east corner.
Katra Mosque.
“Covered in dust,
the founding father Sleeps under the stair
In 1704 AD. Murshid Quli Khan Came to
Bengal as Aurangazeb’s Prime Minister.
And he named the town
after himself. Murshidabad.
Murshid Quli Khan’s grave is located
Under the stairs of the Katra Mosque.
He wanted the dust from the foot Of
every pilgrim who visited the mosque.
“Covered in dust, the founding
father Sleeps under the stair.”
“Unique design of the
door You’ll find here.”
Where will we find
it in this huge place ?
Come this way…
There’s a unique design
here That is not repeated.
You won’t find the
design for the second time.
Let’s start looking.
Soham!
Only this design is one of it’s
kind. Did you find anything that side?
I’ve checked. It’s not there.
Give me your phone .
The west… This way… Let’s go.
“The unique door on the west Will
lead you to a secret passageway.”
It’s this way…
Brishti, show me the photo.
Come…
“Move past the number of rooms
You’d counted earlier in the day.”
The total number of
graves were 34. Yes.
We’ve to cross 34 rooms.
So,
he’s talking about this room.
Yes, should be.
-One, two… -Two…
-Three, four… -Three…
Five,six,seven.eight,
Nine,ten,eleven…
The dark dawn unknowingly
Invites the nocturnals
The hunter is consumed by
the hunt Crime doesn’t pay.
The criminal will be punished
Anger and courage
Will break the labyrinth
The darkness will be shattered Fear is pulsating
through the veins Looking for a way out.
The hints are hiding,
The proof is injured
The morning will bring an
end to this war With the truth.
The hints are hiding,
The proof is injured
The morning will bring an
end to this war With the truth.
Amirchand, don’t touch it.
Where did these
people come from?
-It’s good in a way. Thank you very much.
-Amirchand…
My father had worked very hard to
acquire it. You can’t just take it away.
So,
now you know who your father is ?
Let me send you to your father.
Asutosh’s daughter
can go along with you.
This is God’s grace!
When you overheard
me in the library…
I don’t think you noticed
The last two lines of the poem.
“Buried deep rests
Alinagar’s wealth
“Careful, touching it will
be injurious to your health.”
Please tell your Bengali
brothers These poems, okay?
I only care about
the precious object.
-Amirchand,please listen to me…
-Come to me, precious…
Everything my father
has said has come true.
This will come true too…
I’m warning you
for the last time.
Do not touch it!
Watch me do it… Don’t touch it…
Please don’t do it…
This is the Katra Mosque.
This is where the underground
high tension cable runs through.
Repairing this is
creating a lot of trouble.
We’ll cut all power supply For
the next three days to repair it.
Lots of wires go
through here also…
What is the matter?
“Buried deep rests Alinagar’s wealth “Careful,
touching it will be injurious to your health.”
I’m Barnali Sen. CID
I’m the investigating officer
For the 1990 murder case.
My work is done for now.
I wanted to show you
a photo Before I left.
Do you recognize this man ?
-This is…
- My father and that’s me…
Bye.
Can I have a minute?
I have no qualms in accepting…
I had Somnath’s manuscript.
I had taken
advantage of his death.
This book… …is a result
of Somnath’s hard work.
The name of the author of “Bengal’s
Mirror” Will change from the next edition.
I’ve heard plending guilty…
Lowers the guilt.
Don’t know.
But whatever you go…
…if you could take
her along… Will you?
Then I won’t be worried…
“BENGAL’S MIRROR” SOMNATH DAS